#osdev
Operating Systems are a part of everyones everyday life, however people seem not to cherish or even recognize this sometimes. The Operating System is the first thing that is running a [[Computer]] after booting (Excluding the [[BIOS]], which comes before that).
When people think of Operating Systems, the first things that come to mind are usually [[Windows]], [[Mac OS X]], [[Android]], [[iOS]] and [[Linux]], although linux is more of an [[Operating System Kernel]] than an Operating System itself.
The term [[Operating System Kernel]] is a keyword for explaining Operating Systems, because this really is the heart of an Operating System. The [[Operating System Kernel]] handles the core functionalities like the [[File System]], setting up a [[System Call Table]], creating a [[Process Scheduler]], setting up [[Device Drivers]], managing [[Memory]] by using techniques like [[Paging]] and many more. 
Operating Systems also provide a [[Shell]], through which the user can interact with it and run [[Programs]], set [[Environment Variables]], ...
Similar to [[Embedded Systems]], Operating Systems consist of code that runs in a [[Low Level]] environment, so only a handful of [[Programming Languages]], like [[C]], [[C++]], [[Rust]], or simply plain [[Assembly]] are suited for creating one.
To boot an Operating System a so called [[Boot Loader]] is required, which sits in the [[Boot Sector]] of the [[Hard Drive]] it boots from. Modern [[Boot Loader]]s, like [[GRUB]] take up way more space than just 512 [[Byte]]s (Size of the traditional [[Boot Sector]]), so how do you work around that? Well [[Multi-Stage Boot Loader]]s are the solution to that problem. They are built the same way an Operating System is, just with the intent to boot one. The [[Multi-Stage Boot Loader]] starts at the first stage, which is a really small [[Boot Loader]], that fits into the [[Boot Sector]] and loads the next stage of the bigger [[Multi-Stage Boot Loader]].